You rarely see the gravestone on which the repair is.
But you rarely find such a strange story as this one.
I'm just a short walk from Huelva, in southern Spain
and near there is the grave of a Man who has never been.
In 1943, when the Second World War was raging
found the body of Major William Martin serving at the British Navy
as he sails on the water of the coast.
A suitcase was attached to his body and there was a letter with details
on the planned allied attack on Greece across the Mediterranean Sea.
There was no "here our secret plans here", but almost.
It was a friendly letter among the generals in which
there were all the necessary details.
The British Security Service was desperately trying to get it
the briefcase back before German spies,
but it was too late.
Britain has gotten its documents back,
but before that their copy was already on the way to Hitler.
He then sent a large number of soldiers, tanks and ships to Greece,
to avert the British attack.
Hitler had to be quite surprised,
when allies invaded Sicily,
near the southern coast of Italy, instead of Greece.
And they won, with a fraction of the losses they could suffer.
Major William Martin never existed.
He was fictional.
But there was a man named Glyndwr Michael.
It was Welsh living in London during the Second World War.
He had no home or money or friends.
He died in the street after he poisoned the poison in the meal,
maybe deliberately, maybe out of despair, he ate the remnants of rat poisoned food.
We will never know.
According to official records,
his body was "relocated outside England" and that is actually true.
His body had been in the morgue for some time,
then dressed him in the right uniform and added carefully falsified personal documents.
There was an account for a wedding ring, a love letter from the fiancee and her photo,
bus card, keys and other papers.
Then they loaded the body into a submarine that had reached the Spanish coast.
And during a dark night in April 1943, the crew let the body into the water
and let it drift by the stream.
The action was called, somewhat terrible, "Operation Mackerel".
The British Security Service has chosen the place correctly.
There were a lot of German spies in Spain,
and the head of Spanish security was the kind of man,
which would declare the appearance of the body as its own
and then went to Berlin to hand over the copies personally
and maybe even somewhat embraced the story of his finding,
to make it look better and to make the story look a little more credible.
And he did exactly that.
And, of course, the desperate attempt of the British to save the documents was just an eye.
In 1943, the team from Bletchley Park deciphered the Enigma code
and he could listen to the German news
less than a month after Glyndrew's body was launched.
They caught a message confirming that the plan had come out perfectly.
Britain took Sicily, used it as a bridgehead to get to Italy
and German war plans were in ruins.
Even then, Major Martin, was buried with all the military honors and gravestones.
The truth was still strictly secret.
His true identity was revealed in decades
and therefore his grave was repaired.
Glyndwr Michael, served as Major William Martin.
Rest in peace.